README - makesbld project

DESCRIPTION

makesbld is a set of reusable functions that simplify the creation and
maintenance of packages for Slackware Linux. Using the makesbld package
will enforce standards across your build files and make it easy to
maintain or expand. It's a framework which allows you to use what you
need or bypass the defaults.

It is based on code originally created by Jim Simmons at 
linuxpackages.net with the .skel files modified by Jay Scott
Raymond.

Some of the functions, such as create_docs, the strip* and gzip*
functions are taken from the slackbuilds slack-pkg.conf file. Some
functions have been heavily modified, others left intact.

Several of the ideas for the package are extracted from Gentoo Linux's
ebuild system, such as the functions do* which place files in
specific directories.

The idea for using Mirror variables for retrieving source from
popular locations was also taken from Gentoo. Another idea taken
from Gentoo is the ability to run one part of the SlackBuild at a
time to save time or test functionality.

makesbld is a build-only system. While it will create Slackware
package t?z files, SlackBuild has no part in installing the
resulting package. This is left to pkgtool.

The rationale of this package is to strike a balance between
what Gentoo offers which is complex and robust and the monolithic
build scripts which Slackware has. Writing Gentoo ebuilds is almost
like learning a new language yet Slackware's build paradigm is
too simplistic.

Hopefully, this project will strike a happy medium.

See the following files for Setup and Usage information:

README.SETUP - discusses initial configuration
README.USAGE - discusses usage
README.FUNCTIONS - details the reusable functions available
README.makesbld - explains how to use the automatic script generation
  program makesbdld-d.sh
README.QUICKSTART - walks the user through the creation of a SlackBuild
README.SlackBuild.Anatomy - details the layout of the SlackBuild files


Peter Hyman <pete@peterhyman.com>

## end README
